[DOCS] Adds Making dashboards interactive (#102815)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/dashboard/make-dashboards-interactive.asciidoc

For example, use the options list on the sample flight dashboard when you want to filter the data by origin city and destination city.

* *Range slider* — Filters data within a specified range of numbers. The minimum and maximum values are dynamically populated with the results of a 
min and max aggregation. For example, use the range slider when you want to filter the sample flight dashboard by a specific average ticket price.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/dashboard-controls.png[]

. On the dashboard, click *All types*, then select *Controls*.

. Click *Options*, then configure the following options:

* *Update {kib} filters on each change* &mdash; When selected, all interactive inputs create filters that refresh the dashboard. When unselected,
 {kib} filters are created only when you click *Apply changes*.

* *Use time filter* &mdash; When selected, the aggregations that generate the options list and time range are connected to the <<set-time-filter,time filter>>.

* *Pin filters for all applications* &mdash; When selected, all filters created by interacting with the inputs are automatically pinned.

. Click *Update*

[float]
[[create-drilldowns]]
== Create drilldowns

> When you interact with the values and in a visualization panel, {kib} creates and applies a filter for the value to the entire dashboard. To customize the behavior of what happens when you click a value, create drilldowns. Drilldows are shortcuts that allow you to quickly navigate between your most used dashboards, or navigate to external websites from your dashboards. You can create multiple drilldowns for a single panel. 

Reviewer: It's not very specific to say "When you interact with the values", since we have seen confusion about how this works. It's also not just clicks, for example you can drag to select a range of values in some chart types.

```suggestion
Each panel type in {kib} has a built-in interaction which applies a filter to the dashboard, for example by dragging a time range or clicking a pie slice. Drilldowns let you customize this behavior while keeping the context of the interaction. For example, if you add a drilldown to a Lens panel you navigate from a summary dashboard to a dashboard with a filter for the specific host name you filtered. You could also navigate to an external website with the specific host name as a parameter. You can create multiple drilldowns for a single panel.
```

you to apply dashboard-level filtes, and drilldowns that allow you to navigate to other \
dashboards and external websites.

Add interactive capabilities to your dashboard, such as controls that allow you to apply dashboard-level filtes, and drilldowns that allow you to navigate to other dashboards and external websites. 

*Controls* panels allow you to apply dashboard-level filters based on values from a list, or a range of values. 

{kib} supports two types of *Controls*:

* *Options list* — Filters content based on one or more specified options. The dropdown menu is dynamically populated with the results of a terms aggregation. 
For example, use the options list on the sample flight dashboard when you want to filter the data by origin city and destination city.

* *Range slider* — Filters data within a specified range of numbers. The minimum and maximum values are dynamically populated with the results of a 
min and max aggregation. For example, use the range slider when you want to filter the sample flight dashboard by a specific average ticket price.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/dashboard-controls.png[]

> Panels have built-in interactive capabilties that apply filters to the dashboard data. For example, when you drag a time range or click a pie slice, a filter for the time range or pie slice is applied. Drilldowns let you customize the interactive behavior while keeping the context of the interaction. For example, when can create a drilldown for a *Lens* panel that navigates you from a summary dashboard to a dashboard with a filter for a specific host name. You can also create drilldowns that navigate you to an external website with the specific host name as a parameter. Each dashboards panel can support multiple drilldowns. The drilldowns you create apply only to the panel that you created the drilldown on, and are not shared across panels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Panels have built-in interactive capabilities that apply filters to the dashboard data. For example, when you drag a time range or click a pie slice, a filter for the time range or pie slice is applied. Drilldowns let you customize the interactive behavior while keeping the context of the interaction. For example, you can create a drilldown for a *Lens* panel that navigates you from a summary dashboard to a dashboard with a filter for a specific host name. You can also create drilldowns that navigate you to an external website with the specific host name as a parameter. Each dashboard panel can support multiple drilldowns. The drilldowns you create apply only to the panel that you created the drilldown on, and are not shared across panels.
```

Reviewer 2: Can you break this into two paragraphs?

* *Pin filters for all applications* &mdash; When selected, all filters created by interacting with the inputs are automatically pinned.

. Click *Update*

[float]
[[dashboard-drilldowns]]
=== Create dashboard drilldowns

Dashboard drilldowns enable you to open a dashboard from another dashboard, taking the time range, filters, and other parameters with you so the context remains the same. Dashboard drilldowns help you to continue your analysis from a new perspective.

For example, if you have a dashboard that shows the logs and metrics for multiple data centers, you can create a drilldown that navigates from the dashboard that shows multiple data centers, to a dashboard that shows a single data center or server.

[role="screenshot"]
image:images/drilldown_on_data_table.gif[Drilldown on data table that navigates to another dashboard]

The panels you create using the following editors support dashboard drilldowns:

* *Lens*
* *Maps*
* *TSVB*
* *Vega*
* *Aggregation-based* area chart, data table, heat map, horitizontal bar chart, line chart, pie chart, tag cloud, and vertical bar chart
* *Timelion*

[float]
==== Create and set up the dashboards you want to connect

> Use the *Sample web logs* data to create a dashboard and add panels, then set a search and filter on the *[Logs] Web traffic* dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Link to sample web logs doc?

* *Single click* &mdash; A single data point in the panel.

* *Range selection* &mdash; A range of values in a panel.

For example, *Single click* has `{{event.value}}` and *Range selection* has `{{event.from}}` and `{{event.to}}`.

The panels you create using the following editors support dashboard drilldowns:

* *Lens*
* *Maps*
* *TSVB*
* *Aggregation-based* area chart, data table, heat map, horitizontal bar chart, line chart, pie chart, tag cloud, and vertical bar chart

[float]
==== Create a URL drilldown

For example, if you have a dashboard that shows data from a Github repository, you can create a URL drilldown that opens Github from the dashboard panel.

. Add the *Sample web logs* data.

. Open the *[Logs] Web traffic* dashboard.

. In the toolbar, click *Edit*.

. Open the *[Logs] Visitors by OS* panel menu, then select *Create drilldown*.

. Click *Go to URL*.

.. Give the drilldown a name. For example, `Show on Github`.

.. For the *Trigger*, select *Single click*.

.. To navigate to the {kib} repository Github issues, enter the following in the *Enter URL* field:
+
[source, bash]
----
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+{{event.value}}
----
+

> `{{event.value}}` is substituted with a value associated with a selected pie slice.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is something the user needs to do, or if this is what Kibana does.
